---
title: "vsftpd的配置"
category: life
---

<p>Linux下常用的ftp服务器软件有wu-ftpd、proftpd、pure-ftpd和vsftpd，其中：</p>
<ul>
    <li>wu-ftpd：年代久远了，已无人维护，漏洞多，不推荐使用。</li>
    <li>proftpd：配置类Apache ，支持虚拟目录</li>
    <li>pure-ftpd：不是很清楚</li>
    <li>vsftpd：本文的主角，不支持虚拟目录，但配置简单，如使用好功能也很强大</li>
</ul>

<h3>配置文件 (/etc/vsftpd.conf)</h3>
<pre class="code">
# Example config file /etc/vsftpd.conf
#
# Use this to use vsftpd in standalone mode, otherwise it runs through (x)inetd
listen=YES       <span class="red">arch中默认配置文件，只要开启这个选项就能打开FTP服务</span>
#
# The default compiled in settings are fairly paranoid. This sample file
# loosens things up a bit, to make the ftp daemon more usable.
# Please see vsftpd.conf.5 for all compiled in defaults.
#
# READ THIS: This example file is NOT an exhaustive list of vsftpd options.
# Please read the vsftpd.conf.5 manual page to get a full idea of vsftpd's
# capabilities.
#
# Allow anonymous FTP? (Beware - allowed by default if you comment this out).
anonymous_enable=NO
#
# Uncomment this to allow local users to log in.
local_enable=YES
#
# Uncomment this to enable any form of FTP write command.
write_enable=YES
#
# Default umask for local users is 077. You may wish to change this to 022,
# if your users expect that (022 is used by most other ftpd's)
local_umask=022
#anon_umask=022
#
# Uncomment this to allow the anonymous FTP user to upload files. This only
# has an effect if the above global write enable is activated. Also, you will
# obviously need to create a directory writable by the FTP user.
#anon_upload_enable=YES
#
# Uncomment this if you want the anonymous FTP user to be able to create
# new directories.
#anon_mkdir_write_enable=YES
#
# Activate directory messages - messages given to remote users when they
# go into a certain directory.
dirmessage_enable=YES
#
# Activate logging of uploads/downloads.
xferlog_enable=YES
#
# Make sure PORT transfer connections originate from port 20 (ftp-data).
connect_from_port_20=YES
#
# If you want, you can arrange for uploaded anonymous files to be owned by
# a different user. Note! Using &quot;root&quot; for uploaded files is not
# recommended!
#chown_uploads=YES
#chown_username=whoever
#
# You may override where the log file goes if you like. The default is shown
# below.
#xferlog_file=/var/log/vsftpd.log
#
# If you want, you can have your log file in standard ftpd xferlog format
#xferlog_std_format=YES
#
# You may change the default value for timing out an idle session.
#idle_session_timeout=600
#
# You may change the default value for timing out a data connection.
#data_connection_timeout=120
#
# It is recommended that you define on your system a unique user which the
# ftp server can use as a totally isolated and unprivileged user.
#nopriv_user=ftpsecure
#
# Enable this and the server will recognise asynchronous ABOR requests. Not
# recommended for security (the code is non-trivial). Not enabling it,
# however, may confuse older FTP clients.
#async_abor_enable=YES
#
# By default the server will pretend to allow ASCII mode but in fact ignore
# the request. Turn on the below options to have the server actually do ASCII
# mangling on files when in ASCII mode.
# Beware that on some FTP servers, ASCII support allows a denial of service
# attack (DoS) via the command &quot;SIZE /big/file&quot; in ASCII mode. vsftpd
# predicted this attack and has always been safe, reporting the size of the
# raw file.
# ASCII mangling is a horrible feature of the protocol.
#ascii_upload_enable=YES
#ascii_download_enable=YES
#
# You may fully customise the login banner string:
ftpd_banner=Welcome to blah FTP service.
#
# You may specify a file of disallowed anonymous e-mail addresses. Apparently
# useful for combatting certain DoS attacks.
#deny_email_enable=YES
# (default follows)
#banned_email_file=/etc/vsftpd.banned_emails
#
# You may specify an explicit list of local users to chroot() to their home
# directory. If chroot_local_user is YES, then this list becomes a list of
# users to NOT chroot().
#chroot_local_user=YES        <span class="red">默认对本地用户开启chroot</span>
#chroot_list_enable=YES       <span class="red">对列表中的本地用户开启chroot</span>
# (default follows)
#chroot_list_file=/etc/vsftpd.chroot_list
#
# You may activate the &quot;-R&quot; option to the builtin ls. This is disabled by
# default to avoid remote users being able to cause excessive I/O on large
# sites. However, some broken FTP clients such as &quot;ncftp&quot; and &quot;mirror&quot; assume
# the presence of the &quot;-R&quot; option, so there is a strong case for enabling it.
#ls_recurse_enable=YES
guest_enable=YES              <span class="red">虚拟帐户开启，配合PAM的pam_list_file.so模块使用，保护系统账号</span>
guest_username=vuser
</pre>

<h3>/etc/pam.d/ftp</h3>
<pre class="code">
#%PAM-1.0
#auth            required         pam_securetty.so         #Disable remote root
#auth            required         pam_listfile.so item=user sense=allow file=/etc/ftpusers onerr=succeed
#auth            required         pam_pwdb.so shadow nullok
#auth            required         pam_shells.so
#account                 required         pam_pwdb.so
#session                 required         pam_pwdb.so
auth             required         pam_userdb.so db=/etc/vsftpd_login
account          required         pam_userdb.so db=/etc/vsftpd_login
</pre>

<h3>建立虚拟账户数据库</h3>
<pre class="code">
#vi users.txt
tom
123
jack
123     <span class="red">这是密码</span>
</pre>
<pre class="quote">
#db_load -T -t hash -f users.txt /etc/vsftpd_login.db
</pre>
